CASMINST-4462 CASMINST-4805: NCN image modification procedure (#1506)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/configuration_management/Pre_Boot_NCN_Image_Configuration.md

1. Locate the NCN Image to be Modified

    This example assumes you want to modify the image that is currently in use by NCNs. However, the steps
    are the same for any NCN SquashFS image.

    ```console
    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/filesystem.squashfs ./<version>-filesystem.squashfs

    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/kernel ./<version>-kernel

    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/initrd ./<version>-initrd

    ncn# export IMS_ROOTFS_FILENAME=<version>-filesystem.squashfs

    ncn# export IMS_KERNEL_FILENAME=<version>-kernel

    ncn# export IMS_INITRD_FILENAME=<version>-initrd
    ```

1. [Import External Image to IMS](../image_management/Import_External_Image_to_IMS.md)

    This document will instruct the admin to set several environment variables, including the three set in
    the previous step.

1. [Create and Populate a VCS Configuration Repository](Create_and_Populate_a_VCS_Configuration_Repository.md)

   **NOTE:** if the image modification is a kernel-level change, a new `initrd` can be created by invoking
   the following script: `/srv/cray/scripts/common/create-ims-initrd.sh`. This script is embedded in the

>    NCN SquashFS. After the script completes, a new `initrd` will be available at `/boot/initrd`. CFS will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   NCN SquashFS. After the script completes, a new `initrd` file will be available in the `/boot/` directory. CFS will
```

   automatically make this `initrd` available at the end of the CFS session.

>    **WARNING:** if you do not run the above script, **DO NOT** download the initrd or kernel after the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **WARNING:** If the above script is not run, **DO NOT** download the `initrd` or kernel after the
```

   CFS session completes (see below). CFS will collect `/boot/initrd` and `/boot/vmlinuz` from the modified

>    SquashFS. If you do not run the `create-ims-initrd.sh` script, these artifacts will be incorrect and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   SquashFS. If the `create-ims-initrd.sh` script is not run, then these artifacts will be incorrect and
```

   will not be able to boot an NCN.

>    If you're not modifying anything at the kernel-level there is no need to create a new `initrd`. In

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   When not modifying anything at the kernel-level, there is no need to create a new `initrd`. In
```

   that case, simply use the existing `initrd`.

> 1. [Create a CFS Configuration](Create_a_CFS_Configuration.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a CFS configuration.

    See [Create a CFS Configuration](Create_a_CFS_Configuration.md).
```

> 1. [Create an Image Customization CFS Session](Create_an_Image_Customization_CFS_Session.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create an image customization CFS session.

    See [Create an Image Customization CFS Session](Create_an_Image_Customization_CFS_Session.md).
```

1. Download the Resultant NCN Artifacts

>     **NOTE:** `$IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID` is the IMS image ID returned in the output of the last command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > **NOTE:** `$IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID` is the IMS image ID returned in the output of the last command
```

>     in the previous step:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > in the previous step:
```

>     ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > ```console
```

>     ncn# cray cfs sessions describe example --format json | jq .status.artifacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > ncn# cray cfs sessions describe example --format json | jq .status.artifacts
```

    ```

    ```console
    ncn# cray artifacts get boot-images $IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID/rootfs kubernetes-<version>-1.squashfs

    ncn# cray artifacts get boot-images $IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID/initrd initrd.img-<version>-1.xz

    ncn# cray artifacts get boot-images $IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID/kernel 5.3.18-150300.59.43-default-<version>-1.kernel
    ```

> 1. Upload NCN boot artifacts into S3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Upload NCN boot artifacts into S3.
```

>     This steps assumes that the `docs-csm` RPM is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This steps requires that the `docs-csm` RPM is installed. See [Check for Latest Documentation](../../update_product_stream/index.md#documentation).
```

    ```console
    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/filesystem.squashfs' --file-name kubernetes-<version>-1.squashfs

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/initrd' --file-name initrd.img-<version>-1.xz

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/kernel' --file-name <version>-1.kernel
    ```

> 1. Update NCN Boot Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Update NCN boot parameters.
```

    Get the existing `metal.server` setting for the xname of the node of interest:

>     ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```console
```

>     ncn# XNAME=<your-xname>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ncn# XNAME=<your-xname>
```

    ncn# METAL_SERVER=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' \
         | awk -F 'metal.server=' '{print $2}' \

>          | awk -F ' ' '{print $1}')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             | awk -F ' ' '{print $1}')
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```
```

    Verify the variable was set correctly: `echo $METAL_SERVER`

>     Update the kernel, initrd, and metal server to point to the new artifacts. Note that multiple Xnames can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Update the kernel, `initrd`, and metal server to point to the new artifacts.

        Note: Multiple xnames can be updated at the same time, if desired.
```

    be updated at the same time if desired.

    ```console
    ncn# S3_ARTIFACT_PATH=ncn-images/k8s/<new-version>
    ncn# NEW_METAL_SERVER=http://rgw-vip.nmn/$S3_ARTIFACT_PATH

>     ncn# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ncn# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | \
```

         sed "/metal.server/ s|$METAL_SERVER|$NEW_METAL_SERVER|")

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ```
```

>     Verify the value of `$NEW_METAL_SERVER` was set correctly: `echo $PARAMS`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. Verify that the value of `$NEW_METAL_SERVER` was set correctly:

            ```console
            ncn# echo $PARAMS
            ```
```

>     In the following invocation, `$XNAME` may be one more more Xname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        1. Update BSS.
        
            In the following invocation, `$XNAME` may be one or more xnames.
```

>     ```console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ```console
```

    ncn# cray bss bootparameters update --hosts $XNAME   \
         --kernel "s3://$S3_ARTIFACT_PATH/kernel" \
         --initrd "s3://$S3_ARTIFACT_PATH/initrd" \
         --params "$PARAMS"

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            ```
```

# Pre-Boot Configuration of NCN Images

**NOTE:** Some of the documentation linked from this page mentions use of the Boot Orchestration Service (BOS). The use of BOS
is only relevant for booting compute nodes and can be ignored when working with NCN images.

This document describes the configuration of a Kubernetes NCN image. The same steps are relevant for modifying
a Ceph image.

1. Locate the NCN Image to be Modified

    This example assumes you want to modify the image that is currently in use by NCNs. However, the steps
    are the same for any NCN SquashFS image.

    ```console
    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/filesystem.squashfs ./<version>-filesystem.squashfs

    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/kernel ./<version>-kernel

    ncn# cray artifacts get ncn-images k8s/<version>/initrd ./<version>-initrd

    ncn# export IMS_ROOTFS_FILENAME=<version>-filesystem.squashfs

    ncn# export IMS_KERNEL_FILENAME=<version>-kernel

    ncn# export IMS_INITRD_FILENAME=<version>-initrd
    ```

1. [Import External Image to IMS](../image_management/Import_External_Image_to_IMS.md)

>     This document will instruct the admin to set several environment variables, including the three set in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    This document will instruct the administrator to set several environment variables, including the three set in
```

    the previous step.

1. [Create and Populate a VCS Configuration Repository](Create_and_Populate_a_VCS_Configuration_Repository.md)

   **NOTE:** if the image modification is a kernel-level change, a new `initrd` can be created by invoking
   the following script: `/srv/cray/scripts/common/create-ims-initrd.sh`. This script is embedded in the
   NCN SquashFS. After the script completes, a new `initrd` will be available at `/boot/initrd`. CFS will
   automatically make this `initrd` available at the end of the CFS session.

   **WARNING:** if you do not run the above script, **DO NOT** download the `initrd` or `kernel` after the
   CFS session completes (see below). CFS will collect `/boot/initrd` and `/boot/vmlinuz` from the modified
   SquashFS. If you do not run the `create-ims-initrd.sh` script, these artifacts will be incorrect and
   will not be able to boot an NCN.

   If you're not modifying anything at the kernel-level there is no need to create a new `initrd`. In
   that case, simply use the existing `initrd`.

>    **NOTE:** if desired, the default SSH *host* keys can be removed with a CFS Ansible task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   **NOTE:** If desired, the default SSH *host* keys can be removed with a CFS Ansible task:
```

    ncn# cray artifacts get boot-images $IMS_RESULTANT_IMAGE_ID/kernel 5.3.18-150300.59.43-default-<version>-1.kernel
    ```

1. Upload NCN boot artifacts into S3

    This steps assumes that the `docs-csm` RPM is installed.

    ```console
    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/filesystem.squashfs' --file-name kubernetes-<version>-1.squashfs

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/initrd' --file-name initrd.img-<version>-1.xz

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/kernel' --file-name <version>-1.kernel
    ```

1. Update NCN Boot Parameters

    Get the existing `metal.server` setting for the xname of the node of interest:

    ```console
    ncn# XNAME=<your-xname>
    ncn# METAL_SERVER=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' \
         | awk -F 'metal.server=' '{print $2}' \
         | awk -F ' ' '{print $1}')
    ```

    Verify the variable was set correctly: `echo $METAL_SERVER`

>     Update the kernel, initrd, and metal server to point to the new artifacts. Note that multiple Xnames can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Update the kernel, initrd, and metal server to point to the new artifacts. Note that multiple xnames can
```

    be updated at the same time if desired.

    ```console
    ncn# S3_ARTIFACT_PATH=ncn-images/k8s/<new-version>
    ncn# NEW_METAL_SERVER=http://rgw-vip.nmn/$S3_ARTIFACT_PATH

    ncn# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | \
         sed "/metal.server/ s|$METAL_SERVER|$NEW_METAL_SERVER|")
    ```

    Verify the value of `$NEW_METAL_SERVER` was set correctly within the boot parameters: `echo $PARAMS`

>     In the following invocation, `$XNAME` may be one more more Xname.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In the following invocation, `$XNAME` may be more than one xname.
```

# Pre-Boot Configuration of NCN Images

> **NOTE:** Some of the documentation linked from this page mentions use of the BOS service. The use of BOS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** Some of the documentation linked from this page mentions use of the Boot Orchestration Service (BOS). The use of BOS
```

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/initrd' --file-name initrd.img-<version>-1.xz

    ncn# /usr/share/doc/csm/scripts/ceph-upload-file-public-read.py --bucket-name ncn-images --key-name 'k8s/<new-version>/kernel' --file-name <version>-1.kernel
    ```

1. Update NCN boot parameters.

    1. Set a variable with the component name (xname) of the node of interest.

        ```console
        ncn# XNAME=<your-xname>
        ```

    1. Get the existing `metal.server` setting for the node.

        ```console
        ncn# METAL_SERVER=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' \
             | awk -F 'metal.server=' '{print $2}' \
             | awk -F ' ' '{print $1}')
        ```

    1. Verify that the variable was set correctly.

        ```console
        ncn# echo $METAL_SERVER
        ````

    1. Update the kernel, `initrd`, and `metal.server` to point to the new artifacts.

>         Note: Multiple xnames can be updated at the same time, if desired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        **NOTE:** Multiple xnames can be updated at the same time, if desired.
```
This is the formatting in several instances above.

Author: It seems this comment was made on out-of-date source.  The verbiage around 'multiple xnames' was changed in several places.

        1. Set variables.

            ```console
            ncn# S3_ARTIFACT_PATH=ncn-images/k8s/<new-version>
            ncn# NEW_METAL_SERVER=http://rgw-vip.nmn/$S3_ARTIFACT_PATH

            ncn# PARAMS=$(cray bss bootparameters list --hosts $XNAME --format json | jq '.[] |."params"' | \
                 sed "/metal.server/ s|$METAL_SERVER|$NEW_METAL_SERVER|")
            ```

        1. Verify that the value of `$NEW_METAL_SERVER` was set correctly.

            ```console

>             ncn# echo $PARAMS

Author: Thanks - added some clarification here.
